.TH "   \fBasterisk\fP   " "8" 
 
.SH "NAME" 
\fBasterisk\fP       \(em    All-purpose telephony server. 
 
 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
 
.PP 
\fBasterisk\fR    \fB-BcdfFghiImnpqRtTvVW\fP     \fB-C \fP\fIfile\fR     \fB-e \fP\fImemory\fR     \fB-G \fP\fIgroup\fR     \fB-L \fP\fIloadaverage\fR     \fB-M \fP\fIvalue\fR     \fB-U \fP\fIuser\fR     \fB-s \fP\fIsocket-file\fR     
 
.PP 
\fBasterisk \-r\fR    \fB-v\fP     \fB-d\fP     \fB-x \fP\fIcommand\fR     
 
.PP 
\fBasterisk \-R\fR    \fB-v\fP     \fB-d\fP     \fB-x \fP\fIcommand\fR     
 
 
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
2011-02-08;           
.PP 
\fBasterisk\fR is a full-featured telephony server which 
provides Private Branch eXchange (PBX), Interactive Voice Response (IVR), 
Automated Call Distribution (ACD), Voice over IP (VoIP) gatewaying,  
Conferencing, and a plethora of other telephony applications to a broad 
range of telephony devices including packet voice (SIP, IAX2, MGCP, Skinny, 
H.323, Unistim) devices (both endpoints and proxies), as well as traditional TDM 
hardware including T1, E1, ISDN PRI, GR-303, RBS, Loopstart, Groundstart, 
ISDN BRI and many more. 
 
.PP 
At start, Asterisk reads the /etc/asterisk/asterisk.conf main configuration 
file and locates the rest of the configuration files from the configuration 
in that file. The \-C option specifies an alternate main configuration file. 
Virtually all aspects of the operation of asterisk's configuration files 
can be found in the sample configuration files.  The format for those files 
is generally beyond the scope of this man page. 
 
.PP 
When running with \fB-c\fR, \fB-r\fR or \fB-R\fR    options, Asterisk supplies a powerful command line, including command 
completion, which may be used to monitors its status, perform a variety 
of administrative actions and even explore the applications that are 
currently loaded into the system. 
 
.PP 
Asterisk is a trademark of Digium, Inc. 
 
 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
 
.PP 
Running Asterisk starts the asterisk daemon (optionally running it 
in the foreground). However running it with \fB-r\fP or 
\fB-R\fP connects to an existing Asterisk instance through 
a remote console. 
 
.IP "\-B" 10 
Force the background of the terminal to be black, in order for 
terminal colors to show up properly. Equivalent to 
\fBforceblackbackground = yes\fP in 
\fBasterisk.conf\fP. See also 
\fB-n\fP and \fB-W\fP. 
 
.IP "\-C \fIfile\fR" 10 
Use \fBfile\fP as master configuration file 
instead of the default, /etc/asterisk/asterisk.conf 
 
.IP "\-c" 10 
Provide a control console on the calling terminal. The 
console is similar to the remote console provided by 
\fB-r\fP. Specifying this option implies  
\fB-f\fR and will cause asterisk to no longer  
fork or detach from the controlling terminal. Equivalent  
to \fBconsole = yes\fP in \fBasterisk.conf\fP. 
 
.IP "\-d" 10 
Enable extra debugging statements. This parameter may be used several 
times, and each increases the debug level.  Equivalent to \fBdebug = \fInum\fR\fP       in \fBasterisk.conf\fP to explicitly set the initian debug 
level to \fInum\fR. When given at startup, this 
option also implies \fB-f\fP (no forking). However when 
connecting to an existing Asterisk instance (\fB-r\fP or 
\fB-R\fP), it may only increase the debug level. 
 
.IP "\-e \fImemory\fR" 10 
Limit the generation of new channels when the amount of free memory  
has decreased to under \fImemory\fR megabytes. 
Equivalent to \fBminmemfree = \fImemory\fR\fP in 
\fBasterisk.conf\fP. 
 
.IP "\-f" 10 
Do not fork or detach from controlling terminal.  Overrides any 
preceding specification of \fB-F\fR on the command line. 
Equivalent to \fBnofork = yes\fP in \fBasterisk.conf\fP. 
See also \fB-c\fP. 
 
.IP "\-F" 10 
Always fork and detach from controlling terminal.  Overrides any 
preceding specification of \fB-f\fR on the command line. 
May also be used to prevent \fB-d\fP and \fB-v\fP to imply 
no forking. Equivalent to \fBalwaysfork = yes\fP in \fBasterisk.conf\fP. 
 
.IP "\-g" 10 
Remove resource limit on core size, thus forcing Asterisk to dump 
core in the unlikely event of a segmentation fault or abort signal. 
\fBNOTE:\fR in some cases this may be incompatible 
with the \fB-U\fR or \fB-G\fR flags. 
 
.IP "\-G \fIgroup\fR" 10 
Run as group \fIgroup\fR instead of the 
calling group.  \fBNOTE:\fR this requires substantial work 
to be sure that Asterisk's environment has permission to write 
the files required for its operation, including logs, its comm 
socket, the asterisk database, etc. 
 
.IP "\-h" 10 
Provide brief summary of command line arguments and terminate. 
 
.IP "\-i" 10 
Prompt user to intialize any encrypted private keys for IAX2 
secure authentication during startup. 
 
.IP "\-I" 10 
Enable internal timing if DAHDI timing is available. 
The default behaviour is that outbound packets are phase locked 
to inbound packets. Enabling this switch causes them to be 
locked to the internal DAHDI timer instead. 
 
.IP "\-L \fIloadaverage\fR" 10 
Limits the maximum load average before rejecting new calls.  This can 
be useful to prevent a system from being brought down by terminating 
too many simultaneous calls. 
 
.IP "\-m" 10 
Temporarily mutes output to the console and logs.  To return to normal, 
use \fBlogger mute\fR. 
 
.IP "\-M \fIvalue\fR" 10 
Limits the maximum number of calls to the specified value.  This can 
be useful to prevent a system from being brought down by terminating 
too many simultaneous calls. 
 
.IP "\-n" 10 
Disable ANSI colors even on terminals capable of displaying them. 
 
.IP "\-p" 10 
If supported by the operating system (and executing as root), 
attempt to run with realtime priority for increased performance and 
responsiveness within the Asterisk process, at the expense of other 
programs running on the same machine. 
 
.IP "" 10 
Note: \fBastcanary\fR will run concurrently with 
\fBasterisk\fR. If \fBastcanary\fR stops 
running or is killed, \fBasterisk\fR will slow down to 
normal process priority, to avoid locking up the machine. 
 
.IP "\-q" 10 
Reduce default console output when running in conjunction with 
console mode (\fB-c\fR). 
 
.IP "\-r" 10 
Instead of running a new Asterisk process, attempt to connect 
to a running Asterisk process and provide a console interface 
for controlling it. 
 
.IP "\-R" 10 
Much like \fB-r\fR.  Instead of running a new Asterisk process, attempt to connect 
to a running Asterisk process and provide a console interface 
for controlling it. Additionally, if connection to the Asterisk  
process is lost, attempt to reconnect for as long as 30 seconds. 
 
.IP "\-s \fIsocket file name\fR" 10 
In combination with \fB-r\fR, connect directly to a specified 
Asterisk server socket. 
 
.IP "\-t" 10 
When recording files, write them first into a temporary holding directory,  
then move them into the final location when done. 
 
.IP "\-T" 10 
Add timestamp to all non-command related output going to the console 
when running with verbose and/or logging to the console. 
 
.IP "\-U \fIuser\fR" 10 
Run as user \fIuser\fR instead of the 
calling user.  \fBNOTE:\fR this requires substantial work 
to be sure that Asterisk's environment has permission to write 
the files required for its operation, including logs, its comm 
socket, the asterisk database, etc. 
 
.IP "\-v" 10 
Increase the level of verboseness on the console.  The more times 
\fB-v\fR is specified, the more verbose the output is. 
Specifying this option implies \fB-f\fR and will cause 
asterisk to no longer fork or detach from the controlling terminal. 
This option may also be used in conjunction with \fB-r\fR       and \fB-R\fR. 
 
.IP "" 10 
Note: This always sets the verbose level in the asterisk process, 
even if it is running in the background. This will affect the size 
of your log files. 
 
.IP "\-V" 10 
Display version information and exit immediately. 
 
.IP "\-W" 10 
Display colored terminal text as if the background were white 
or otherwise light in color.  Normally, terminal text is displayed 
as if the background were black or otherwise dark in color. 
 
.IP "\-x \fIcommand\fR" 10 
Connect to a running Asterisk process and execute a command on 
a command line, passing any output through to standard out and 
then terminating when the command execution completes.  Implies 
\fB-r\fR when \fB-R\fR is not explicitly 
supplied. 
 
.IP "\-X" 10 
Enables executing of includes via \fB#exec\fR directive. 
This can be useful if You want to do \fB#exec\fR inside 
\fBasterisk.conf\fP                     
 
.SH "EXAMPLES" 
 
.PP 
\fBasterisk\fR \- Begin Asterisk as a daemon 
 
.PP 
\fBasterisk \-vvvgc\fR \- Run on controlling terminal 
 
.PP 
\fBasterisk \-rx "core show channels"\fR \- Display channels on running server 
 
 
.SH "BUGS" 
 
.PP 
Bug reports and feature requests may be filed at https://issues.asterisk.org 
 
 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
 
.PP 
http://www.asterisk.org \- The Asterisk Home Page 
 
.PP 
http://www.asteriskdocs.org \- The Asterisk Documentation Project 
 
.PP 
http://wiki.asterisk.org \- The Asterisk Wiki 
 
.PP 
http://www.digium.com/ \- Asterisk is sponsored by Digium 
 
 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
 
.PP 
Mark Spencer markster@digium.com   
 
.PP 
Countless other contributors, see CREDITS with distribution for more information.   
 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Tue 08 Feb 2011, 12:17 
